# Copy Move Forgery Detection using DyWT and DCT 

Copy-Move forgery which is one of the serious threats in the field of Image Forgery. Copying and pasting a part of an image in the same image is called Copy-Move forgery. Copy-move forgery is often employed for deceptive purposes, such as object duplication i.e. making it seem like there are more objects or people in a scene than there actually were when the photo was taken. Also, removing unwanted elements which is erasing undesirable objects or individuals from a photo and altering context that means changing the context of a scene by duplicating elements to tell a different story. It can be challenging to detect image forgeries, as advanced software tools and techniques are continually evolving to create convincing fake images. Hence there arises the need for an improved algorithm for diagnosing similar duplicated regions in an efficient manner. 

In this project, we propose frequency-based approaches using a Dyadic Wavelet Transform (DyWT) combined with Scale Invariant Feature Transform (SIFT) and Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT) based algorithm to detect copy-move forgery. These algorithms are used to detect the forgery separately and hence compare the results using performance measures such as precision, recall, and accuracy. We found that the accuracy was much better when we used DyWT to detect the forgery than when we used DCT. Also, DyWT can perform multiscale analysis by decomposing an image into multiple resolution levels. DCT, in contrast, is typically a single-scale transformation.
